In this end of Chapter lab,
we will secure microservice session and a
microservice speaker, microservices of
our quarkus-conference
application using mutual TLS
and using authorization with OpenID
Connect and JSON Web Tokens.
For that, we are first going to start
with the lab secure-review start script,
which populates the
exercise files and starts
both the backend database and the Keycloak container, the OpenID server.
Then while these are starting,
you can already go and have a look at
the DO378/labs/secure-review/ directory
which contains a number of scripts.
One of which is the script that prepares
all the certificates
for the microservices.
And it literally generates a keystore
file for the microservice-session.
A keystore file from microservice-speaker
so that each of them has
their own private and public key
or certificate as it's known.
Then it exports the certificate of
each and puts it into the
trust store of the other.
So that's what it does
in the next 2 steps.
It exports the certificate and
creates a trust store for mutual TLS.
So simply run the /prepare-certificates script
and then we can return back
to the previous terminal window.
By now, the script had finished already.
So if we go to the quarkus-conference directory,
we see here there are both applications.
Now just having a look at
the application.properties of
the session microservice,
we simply have to remove the
SpeakerService's old configuration
because it's no longer going to
be listening on port 8080 to once
we reconfigure everything to its TLS. It's
is going to be listening on port 8444.
And then we configure the
trustStore for the client to
the SpeakerService and the
keyStore for that client as well,
because it's going to have
to authenticate against it.
And of course, we are going to configure
the session microservice
to use TLS as well.
So we are going to put it
on port 8445 and again,
configure the Keystore
and the trust store.
We are going to do something
similar to the speaker microservice,
except that the speaker microservice
does not connect to the session,
it's the session service that
connects to the speaker microservice
because it wants to enrich the
information about speakers in a session.
So there is no client configuration in
the application.properties
of the speaker service, it's
just the server configuration.
So remapping to port 8444
and making sure the key-store and
the trust-store are configured.
In addition to that,
we now have the speaker
microservice requiring mutual TLS
from any clients and just rejecting
any plain text requests.
Right!
Now, let us secure the session
microservice's endpoints as well.
So we are going to go to
the session microservice's
source code directory
at the quarkus-oidc extension
and then have a look at
application.properties.
We need to add the authentication
authorization service URL.
We need to tell the client what its ID
to use against the quarkus realm should be.
And of course, the authentication
secret for the authorization client.
Then we go and have a look
at the SessionResource.
Right now it's unprotected.
We are going to require any use of
the session microservice to be
authenticated by adding the
@Authenticated annotation on the class.
Then we are also going to add role-based
access control to all the endpoints.
So the list of all sessions
requires read, role.
The creation of the
session requires modify role,
retrieval of individual
session requires read access
again, updating, modify,
deleting requires the delete role
The obtaining of sessionSpeakers
requires a read role as well.
The adding a speaker to the
session modify role and removing
the session speaker requires
the delete role as well.
So we fixed the endpoint, secured them.
Now, what we can do is simply use
the start-services script that is
2 levels above the source code,
just above the quarkus-conference directory.
So this will start our application,
which allows us to start testing it.
But to do so, we need
to have JSON Web Token.
So we will obtain that using
the keycloak-token script,
which is also located in the
secure-review subdirectory.
We will simply generate the tokens
using user1 service account
and here we go. User1 has the modify,
read and delete roles.
Then we are going to
generate the token for user2
as well and user2 just has a read role
So let's test it.
The curl request sent to the session
microservices on port 8445,
asking to retrieve details of
session s-1-1 using user1_token,
does successfully retrieve the session,
but note that the name of
the speaker is not enriched.
This might point to a mutual TLS issue,
or it might simply be that the
microservice has not started up yet.
So trying the user2_token as well.
In the meantime, it seems to be
accepted because it only needs read role.
Now waiting a little bit,
and trying again, we can see that by
now the speaker service has
actually started up.
So everything is working correctly.
I'm trying to delete session
as the user2  user.
We see that the response is 403. Trying
to delete that same session as user 1,
we get a 204 response, which is great.
Now before we go and grade
the outcome of the lab,
we need to restart the service.
So we are going to have to go to
the initial screen, press ENTER
and wait for the services to shut
down and then restart them again
because we need to reinitialize the
database for the grading scripts to work.
Otherwise, you will get some
failures towards the end and do not
be too eager to repeat the grade,
wait for both services to start.
It can take up to half
a minute or a minute.
Otherwise you will get failures like this.
once both services are started
just rerun lab secure-review grade script.
If you have all the passing
scores, that's excellent.
Just run the lab secure-review
finish script to clean everything up,
and join us in the next
chapter where we are going to
talk about monitoring. See you there.